README.md, before:

This is the supporting repository for the paper titled `Decision-making components and times revealed by the single-trial electro-encephalogram`

![](plots/bump_banner.jpg)

# Structure
All the results and figures are generated by `analyses.ipynb`.
> [!Note]
> Running `analyses.ipynb` on the 512Hz EEG data as in the paper would require a computer with a fairly large amount of RAM
> To run it on a regular laptop downsample the data by changing line 25 of the notebook from `sfreq = info['sfreq'] ` to `sfreq = 100`\

`data` contains all the data used for the code that produces the analyses and the plots (see specific readme in `data/`)
`diagnostic_plots` contains plots that represent the individual fits of the Fechner, Linear and Pieron model to all the different durations used in the study
`estimation_files` contains temporary data for the analyses
`plots` contains the plots generated to accompany the paper
`experiment_code` contains the code that was used for the data collection

# Installation
> [!WARNING]
> Note that this workflow has only been tested on ubuntu 24.04, running it on windows will probably require some adaptations

To run the workflow the easiest is to type the following on a Linux (maybe mac) machine with python installed (developped under 3.12.5)
```bash
python -m venv /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times
source /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times/bin/activate
python -m pip install jupyterlab bambi arviz #not included with hmp
cd hmp/
pip install .
cd ../
jupyter lab
```

If this is not working it is possible to use the `requirements.txt` to reproduce the exact same environment as the one used for the paper:
```bash
python -m venv /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times
source /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt #after the
cd hmp/
pip install .
cd ../
jupyter lab
```
For instructions on how to use HMP see [https://github.com/GWeindel/hmp](https://github.com/GWeindel/hmp).

Feel free to open issues in case problems arise during reproduction

Commit message:

minor changes to README and gitignore

README.md, after:

This is the supporting repository for the paper titled **Decision-making components and times revealed by the single-trial electro-encephalogram**

![](plots/bump_banner.jpg)

# Structure
All the results and figures are generated by the two notebooks:
- `1-HMP_analyses.ipynb` estimates the HMP model and analyses the by-trial effect of experimental factors on inter-event durations and event topography
- `2-ERP_analyses.ipynb` plots the ERPs and test the presence of the CPP
  
  
> [!Note]
> Running the analyses on the 512Hz EEG data as in the paper would require a computer with a fairly large amount of RAM (64GB)\
> To run it on a regular laptop downsample the data by changing line 25 of the notebook `1-HMP_analyses.ipynb` from `sfreq = info['sfreq'] ` to `sfreq = 100`\

`data` contains all the data used for the code that produces the analyses and the plots (see specific README in `data/`)

`diagnostic_plots` contains plots that represent the individual fits of the Fechner, Linear and Pieron model to all the different durations used in the study

`estimation_files` contains temporary data for the analyses

`plots` contains the plots generated to accompany the paper

`experiment_code` contains the code that was used for the data collection

`hmp` is a frozen version of the HMP package (see specific README)

# Installation
> [!WARNING]
> Note that this workflow has only been tested on ubuntu 24.04, running it on windows will probably require some adaptations

To run the workflow the easiest is to type the following on a Linux (maybe mac) machine with python installed (developped under 3.12.5)\
```bash
python -m venv /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times
source /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times/bin/activate
python -m pip install jupyterlab bambi arviz #not included with hmp
cd hmp/
pip install .
cd ../
jupyter lab
```

If this is not working it is possible to use the `requirements.txt` to reproduce the exact same environment as the one used for the paper:
```bash
python -m venv /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times
source /home/[yourhome]/venv/dec_times/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
cd hmp/
pip install .
cd ../
jupyter lab
```
For instructions on how to use HMP see [https://github.com/GWeindel/hmp](https://github.com/GWeindel/hmp).

Feel free to open issues in case problems arise during reproduction
